All right, so
let's add some functionality.
Let's add some properties, and
some chainable methods to our object,
because I like that.
And we'll also set up some setup
features that are within the greeter but
not exposed to the outside world.
So I've already set up my object in
here where I'm building my object and
my function constructor, the one that I'll
actually be using out in my app.js file.
I've already built this up with the
properties that are unique to each copy or
each instance of the object.
So, in order to save memory space,
where should I put any methods and
other properties that would be shared
by all of the objects generated here?
Where should I put it?
I could put self dot and add methods here,
but it's better to put it where?
On the prototype, which, thanks to
this line of code will be this object.
All right?
And what about things that I want
to use in the logic of this entire
framework/library, but I don't want it to
be exposed to the outside world at all?
Can I create variables and
concepts that aren't
part of the object that gets
returned when we use the greeter?
Yes.
I could put, for example, a variable here,
let's say supported languages.
I'll make it an array, and
we're gonna support English and Spanish.
This is never exposed anywhere.
Right?
It's not a property,
it's not a method of
the object being returned.
It's inside this memory
space of this function.
However, I can use it inside my object,
because of what?
Why is it that the object that's returned,
well then any methods
on that object created here would
have access to this variable.
Why would any objects created here
have access to this variable?
Because this object's lexical
environment is this whole function.
And so thanks to closures
it'll close in this variable
even when this immediately
invoked function is done running.
So it will have access to these variables.
But they're hidden to
many other developers
from changing them without coming
into the source code itself.
All right, so let's say I also wanna
set up any other data that I want
that I don't want developers to be able
to change but I do need access to.
I want to set up greetings and
then we'll also set up formal greetings.
I could make these arrays, but I really
would like to reference the greeting
by the name of the language,
by the string, the name of the language.
Do you remember how we
can do that with objects?
How can we reference an object's
property with a string?
That's right, with the brackets.
So I could put English in here and
if there is a .en property it'll find it.
So I can use that and
I'm gonna set up my greetings here,
hello, and a Spanish one, hola.
And then I'll set up a formal greeting,
the same property name so
I can reference it by language.
Greetings, more formal, and saludos,
also more formal in Spanish.
Got that?
So now I have a nice list of greetings and
I'm making sure that others outside this
greeter framework/library can't just go
like greeter.greetings, and change these.
I'll have to expose it for them,
if that's really what they want.
Make sense?
All right.
So, I have my languages.
I have my greetings,
I have my formal greetings and
I'm just gonna put semicolons here.
So it's clear that this is just declaring
and creating these brand new things.
And I need my var to show that.
Make sense?
All right, let's move on.
One other thing.
Just because I'm a good developer,
I wanna add an option to log whenever
those greetings get used or called.
Maybe be logged to a database in our case
we'll just log it to the console that
it got used.
So if I want to log it to the console
I need some messages for that.
So I'll just create log messages and
same thing, maybe it'll be logged in,
will be the message.
And in Spanish,
in case I want Spanish logged messages,
I'll just use this right here.
Inicio session.
That means logged in.
Got it?
All right, so I have three sets
of messages, but they're objects,
not arrays, because I want to
reference them by the name/value pair,
by the name of the property.
And this will let me do this
dynamically very easily.
So, that's some things
that are not exposed to
the outside world until
I desire it to do so.
Interesting, right?
Okay, so now that I have these
values that are hidden from being
accidentally changed, greetings,
formal greetings, log messages.
Let's add some things that will be
exposed inside this prototype object.
So that any objects built here will have
access to any methods and properties here.
And any methods in here that this variable
will point to the object that was created.
Remember all that?
So I need a fullName property because
I have a first name and last name.
We've built this plenty of times.
It's a very simply one,
not very smart one, but that's okay.
This will just return firstName and
lastName.
I'm using object literal syntax to
create a method called fullName with
this function expression to define it.
Then a comma, right,
because I'm adding properties and
methods in object literal syntax.
So I separate them with a comma.
What else might I need?
I'd like to be able to validate that
it's a language that's supported.
So if the developer tries to call this and
pass German or French or
something, I can tell them that
it doesn't support this language.
I set up a hidden variable here that'll
be hidden to the outside world but
accessible via the closure
called supported languages.
So JavaScript will make sure that
when this function is called
because of where it sits lexically,
it will go up the scope chain and
find supported languages
where it's sitting in memory.
So this is an array.
I can use indexOf which
just tells me whether
It's found in the array and
I'm gonna use this.language.
Remember this, the keyword this,
will point to the object
that's calling this function.
And the object will store its own
language that we're requesting.
And I'm gonna see if it's found or not.
If it's not found,
I'm gonna throw a new error.
And this is a simple way to throw an error
in JavaScript, if you didn't know this.
All right, so
it's just a validate function, just so
I can throw an error if we're asking for
a language that isn't supported.
Make sense?
Oh actually there's a syntax error here,
it should say if.
Here we go.
Did you catch that?
All right so if and indexOf returns
a negative one if it's not found.
Otherwise it'll return a zero or a one.
All right so, validate.
So that works just fine and
I have another comma.
So I'm just adding more methods.
I'm adding functionality to my objects.
You'll have access to all of these so
I'm just gonna go ahead and add some.
Let's say I want to have
a regular greeting.
So now I have the first name and last
name of the person I want to go out and
grab the greetings based on
the language that was chosen.
So greetings and then I'll use
brackets operator to get the property,
and the property I've
named after the language.
So this.language, whatever is set
up as the language in the object.
I'll go get that equivalent property name,
do a space and
then the first name of the person,
maybe an exclamation mark or
something like that, cuz this is informal.
And a formalGreeting,
let's just do a function.
And I have formalGreetings as
another object with properties.
And I can grab that property by name,
using the chosen language.
So it will go out and
get the appropriate language.
I'll do a comma and
this dot, actually I want full name
in this case, because it's formal.
So let's do fullName.
All right, so
now I want some methods that I
can really use and be chainable.
Remember we saw chainable
methods in jQuery?
For example, I don't want to
always have to call greeting or
formal greeting that just
encapsulated that code, separately.
I'll just have a greet method,
which is the one I'll probably
be really using as a developer, and
I'll pass whether or not I want it formal.
All right, I've already written this up,
so I'm just going to
type it out real quick.
I'm going to have a message.
And then, I'm also gonna log when this
happens because I just wanna use this and
show how it's used.
So I'll log the greeting to the console.
So I can do .greet and
log into the console that way.
All right, so I have this message.
If it's formal then it's
the result of formal greeting.
If it's not, it's the result of greeting.
These are just returning strings,
and I'll put it to the console.
And then I'll make it
chainable by returning this.
See that?
So .greet, whether or
not I want it formal will log
the appropriate greeting to the console.
And then I'm also going
to write a log function.
This is when I want to manually
make sure that something is logged.
I'll log it to the console,
Internet Explorer
actually doesn't have a console
variable unless its console is open.
So I'm going to make sure that
it is by just saying if console.
That's an object.
If it's undefined,
it will be coerced to false.
So as long as I have a console
object available, I'll console.log.
And then I'm just going to say something
according to this logMessages.
So very similar to what I've done before,
I'll do logMessages[this.language] +
that would be a colon and this.fullName.
So whoever it was that was used, it will
log to the console that log message.
So this is just a greeting, and
this I'm using for logging, and
let's see,
what other functionality can I do?
Well, let's make this chainable as well.
So I'll return this at
the end of this function.
So both of these are chainable,
meaning I can call the object and
then the method and
then dot another method.
What if I want to change
the language on the fly?
Could you write a setLang method that
changes the language on the fly?
And make that a chainable method?
So I could call .greet in English,
then set the language to Spanish and
then call .greet again all in one line.
Let's do function.
It'll take the new language that I want.
And I'll validate this after I
set this.language equal to that
language that got passed in.
So, update my object and then, call
validate to make sure that it's valid.
And then, return this.
Make sense?
So I'm just creating properties and
methods along the way and
each one of these is returning
the this variable so
that they're chainable.
All right.
Let's try using this.
I'm just gonna double-check
my syntax because my editor's
been acting a little strange.
I'd suggest that somewhere
something's wrong.
Oh, look.
See that console.log?
I don't have an ending parenthesis,
that's why it was acting strange,
it was getting confused.
All right.
So I have all of these properties,
all of these methods,
inside a single object literal.
And that object literal ends right there.
See that?
One giant object literal
that's the prototype
of all of these methods defined on it.
So now let's use our object with all of
its properties available on the prototype.
I've got my object returned, right?
So g$ points to the greeter function,
which is up here.
The greeter function returns
a new greeter.init down here,
which builds the object, sets the values.
This prototype makes sure that all of
those objects created from here has access
to all of these methods on
this prototype property.
Got that?
So I should be able to do
something like g.greet and
what g.greet should do is it should
decide whether I passed formal or not.
And i just used coercion
to see if I passed it.
And if I did it'll give me
a formal greeting and if I didn't,
it'll give me a regular greeting and
I made it chainable by returning this,
or returning the object that's
actually calling the method.
So, let's see if this works.
Hello John!
And that's chainable so I could call
greet again right away if I wanted to and
say true.
And that's being passed to that
formal parameter which will then
get me a formal greeting and
pass that or log that to the console.
So what I should see is this
function's calll returns this,
which is the g object and
calls it again on the g object and
there I have, my greeting and
my formal greeting.
And then since I've changed
the language swap I can
stick in between there setLang,
change it to Spanish.
There we go.
What do you think?
If I had set something that wasn't valid,
that validate should throw an error.
So if I tried French it's not supported.
There it is.
So I have chainable methods and an object
that I created without having to call
the new operator using the jQuery syntax.
Take a look at this code.
Try it for yourself.
Try doing some things.
Let's move on.